{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Palatino Linotype;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl240\slmult1\i\f0\fs48\lang9 Reaver's X-Com Harmony - Alien Lore\fs28\par
\par
\par
\par
\fs48 Prologue\fs28\par
\par
The aliens' civilization began hundreds of millions of years ago around a sun-like star in the Milky Way galaxy main disk, on a planet not unlike Earth. This planet was a bit smaller than Mars, with a composition similar to Earth in that it was mostly iron and nickel, it had surface gravity under half that of Earth, and an atmosphere of nitrogen and oxygen a bit thinner than Earth's atmosphere today. The planet had a single large moon, rocky, similar to Earth's moon but smaller, more like the size of Pluto.\par
\par
Upon this planet lived the ancestor of the Ethereal race. Life on their world began much like life on ours, and progressed similar to life on our world, though evolution perhaps moved along faster. However everything changed one day when an aquatic shore animal evolved the ability to communicate telepathically with other members of its own species. Through many steps of evolution, this telepathic power grew into mind-reading ability and finally into telekinetic power. More than a hundred million years later and through two major extinction events, the planet had become home to many telepathic species, but one particular terrestrial lineage had far stronger telekinetic prowess than any other. They were tall, slender creatures which could levitate their bodies and fly through the air, wrestle any telepathic creature under their control with a mere thought, and communicate with each other far more effectively than humans at far greater distances.\par
\par
One particularly powerful species of these telekinetic creatures developed a complex civilization based around telepathic communication with other members of the species, psionic slavery of similarly telepathic animals, and learning to control resources through building structures. They out-competed most other telepathic species on their planet, driving many of them to extinction, and making a lack of telepathy a survival trait. As a result, they became ever more intelligent and their civilization thrived and grew while the other animals became less intelligent and less social overall. Their bodies also atrophied, becoming thin husks, as their advanced civilization and extreme power required them maintain little more than their brains alone.\par
\par
Eventually the Ethereals realized what they were doing to their planet, but it was too late. Most of their important slave species had gone extinct. They built spacecraft and gradually began to explore and colonize planets around other stars. It was slow-moving, as they had no clue that other planets might harbor life; the Ethereals instead were working on genetic manipulation in order to try to resurrect their most valuable slave taxa or genetically engineer existing animals to be better slaves. But one step at a time, over millions of years, they gradually expanded across dozens of star systems with what we today might call primitive navigational skills.\par
\par
You see, the Ethereals had nothing of what we might call "culture". They were no less intelligent than we are, no less advanced than we are, but they looked at the world differently from how we look at it. They could experience beauty, but they had no art. They could have fun, but they had no entertainment pasttimes. They could appreciate sex, but they had no pornography. They had rules to follow, but they had no law. These human concepts would have been meaningless to them. Where humans would engage in silly activities which would not typically advance their civilization, Ethereals were efficient and effective at everything they did. For this reason, the human intellect is far broader than that of the Ethereals ever was.\par
\par
\fs48 Expansion\fs28\par
\par
So it took thousands of years from the time they first explored their planet's surface before they finally set foot on their own moon. Not a soul among them had the thought that there might be strange plants, strange animals, and strange people on the Moon. That was a human thought, and a fairly silly one at that. The Ethereals had no reason to expect that the universe was anything but uninhabited, resources waiting for them to take.\par
\par
And then it happened. The Ethereals stumbled upon a curious planet which they found was covered with life. On a mercury-sized eyeball planet orbiting a red dwarf star, they found life. Primitive microbes, but abundant life of many species no less. It was then that they realized that they may be able to finally abandon the extinct slave animals and possibly find new ones across the galaxy. It was then that they realized, for the first time, that their home world was not the only world with life upon it. This was more than a hundred million years ago.\par
\par
For the first time, the Ethereals began expanding shipyards, constructing exploration ships en masse, and directing their attention toward sweeping the galaxy in search of life on other worlds. Now they didn't have the advanced long range observatories like we have today. Sure, they could make lenses and telescopes, but stars were clearly too far away to resolve remotely. As they had always done before, they would travel to a star in order to learn about it, and send a return expedition home to bring the data back to their grand stellar catalogue. Their starships would typically travel as fast as 1% of the speed of light, but usually much slower as there simply was no hurry. The people leaving weren't going to arrive at the destination, so who cares how long it takes? Time was always on their side, as it always had been. So these trips could easily take many thousands of years. Over the course of several million years, the Ethereals began expanding their empire, sweeping the galaxy, exploring one star system after another. Gradually, the data began to pile up at home, at the grand star catalogue.\par
\par
Back home, the Ethereals were quick to pick up on patterns in the data. They found many worlds with life, and started to learn to predict which worlds would bear life, which stars were best candidates for checking. As they became ever better at finding life-bearing worlds, they began to add a great many hundreds and even thousands of life-bearing worlds to their star catalogue. They even learned how to predict the fate of worlds, as over time some of these life-bearing worlds deprecated to become barren, while other barren places eventually flourished with life. The great star catalogue eventually was able to predict with such accuracy that it could give data on which worlds would bear life and what sort of life it would bear at the time an expedition would arrive there.\par
\par
Most of the worlds had only microbes. While they were useful in many ways, the real treasure to the Ethereals were large animals. They conquered many of these animals gradually over time. As they found worlds rich in macroscopic living things, they would pick through the species and select the best candidates to join their empire as slaves. They then would put these animals through transformation programs which would involve gradual artificial selection, gene editing, and surgical alteration to make the creatures into just the slaves they wanted, for each specific purpose.\par
\par
\fs48 Sectoids\fs28\par
\par
The Ethereals exhibited perhaps some form of racism or perhaps formism, having a greater respect for creatures more similar to them. So it was that the ancestors of the Aquatoid took their attention. These creatures were amphibious and benthic, with a form somewhat similar to that of an Ethereal: bipedal, upright, two prehensile arms, and a head with sensory organs at the top of the body. These creatures were also highly intelligent and had advanced brains.\par
\par
Their biology was very different from that of the Ethereals as was their planet: it was between the size of Io and Callisto, and it orbited a gas giant larger and more massive than Saturn, while the giant orbited a somewhat sun-like orange dwarf star. This planet, or moon, rather, had a nearly spherical irregular shape with great mounds protruding outward past even its own atmosphere, and great valleys filled with seas of mostly water. The moon's shape would deform over time due to gravitational interactions with a nearby moon, and parts of the solid surface which were under the sea could rise up out of the atmosphere, and vice versa.\par
\par
The ancestors of the Aquatoids were able to survive extreme environmental changes, able to live anywhere from the bottom of the seas to the near-vacuum of the bulge-tops. Such transitions were anything but easy. They were incredibly taxing on the creature's physical and mental state. Their large brains had been dedicated to their ability to compute complex variables in order to achieve for themselves the best possible survival scenario during an environmental cataclysm. Most of the time, the majority of their brain remained on standby, in a near-lifeless state and drawing almost no energy. Many of these beings could live out a full life without ever needing that brain.\par
\par
But when their world began to change shape, these beings would go through a metamorphosis which brought this massive brain online, and they would hoard and consume lots of food, becoming fat temporarily while their body would prepare itself in any of a wide variety of different ways depending on their individual needs. During these cataclysms, almost all life would hibernate to survive the changes, and so would these creatures, to save energy. During the cataclysm they would use their great brain to help them adapt to every change which came their way, and when everything finally settled, they would go into hibernation. The moon's entire transformation would take many successive periods of quaking, shuddering, and shifting, followed by periods of relative stability, over thousands of years.\par
\par
\b\fs32 Aquatoids\b0\fs28\par
The Ethereals had an excess of respect for a creature so superficially similar to themselves, thus they wanted this race to become an important member of their empire. Over more than a million years they worked to enslave and alter these creatures into the form we might call the original Aquatoids. They worked through successive steps to tap into the creatures' huge brain and high intelligence, using artificial selection to bring their brains online all the time. The creatures' intelligence was tweaked to apply to more general scenarios. Their bodies were changed to better take advantage of a stable environment. And slowly, over large amounts of breeding, gene editing, and surgical work, the early Aquatoids were made able to use telepathy and psionics.\par
\par
This was a major breakthrough as the difficulty of bridging the gap led Ethereals to discover how to interface a creature's mind with psionic curcuitry. They would go on to use this to improve their control methods on virtually all of their slave animals. It was especially effective on the early Aquatoids, who, while not being able to use psionics without assistance, were able to handily tap into the psionic network with the aid of simple implants. They did not become citizens within the Ethereal empire, but they did become something of mascots or revered pets to their masters.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 